Linux Boot Process:

1. Power On - When a Linux system is powered up or reset, its processor executes a 
specific firmware/program for system initialization, such as Power-on self-test, at 
a known address in flash/ROM. That firmware is called BIOS.

2. BIOS -  BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) is stored in the mainboard. In embedded 
Linux system, this firmware/program is called boot ROM. BIOS contains all the code 
to gain initial access to the main machine devices such as Keyboard, Monitor, 
Disk drives, Serial devices. BIOS perfomrs Power-on self test.Finally, if the 
system passes the POST, the BIOS/UEFI selects a boot device depending on the 
system configuration.

3. Boot loader - After being loaded into RAM, bootloader (also called first-stage bootloader or 
primary bootloader) will execute to load the second-stage bootloader (also called secondary 
bootloader).

4. BL2 - The second-stage bootloader locates and load a Linux kernel into 
RAM and turn control of the computer over to the kernel. The kernel and its 
associated files are located in the /boot directory. 
Second-stage bootloader also performs several operation on the system such 
as system hardware check, mounting the root device, loading the necessary 
kernel modules.

5. Kernel - All of the kernels are in a self-extracting, compressed format 
to save space. The kernels are located in the /boot directory, along with an 
initial RAM disk image, and device maps of the hard drives.

After the selected kernel is loaded into memory and begins executing, it must 
first extract itself from the compressed version of the file before it can 
perform any useful work. Once the kernel has extracted itself, it loads 
systemd, which is the replacement for the old SysV init program, and turns 
control over to it.

This is the end of the boot process. At this point, the Linux kernel and s
ystemd are running but unable to perform any productive tasks for the end user 
because nothing else is running.

6. The startup process - The startup process follows the boot process and 
brings the Linux computer up to an operational state in which it is usable 
for productive work.


